Hello, my name is Ruben and I'm honored to be with you for today's message takeaway from the book of Mark chapter 9 verse 30 through 50.
And today we're going to be talking about redefining greatness.
And I don't know about you, but I know that most of us, we have this model of what we see happening.
as of greatness in and throughout life. I remember as a 12 year old, I come from a car family, which means we love cars. And so I always had this picture
Sure, of the perfect great car.
And as I grew, and as I grew to get a job, I realized that I had a certain picture of greatness, but maybe a gap between greatness and reality.
And so it was a challenge as I grew, realizing I couldn't afford my favorite car ever.
and knowing that I had to wait for it. And so today we're gonna be talking about redefining, redefining greatness. And I want you to remember that our relationship with Jesus
Truly helps us to know what real greatness is all about.
I'm sure as I'm as I'm talking you're thinking about what you see as great and maybe maybe you would say that if I could just get that next degree that would be
That would be great.
Or maybe you're thinking if I could just live in this zip code.
That would be greater or maybe you're thinking if my bank account had
This certain status
That would be greater or maybe it's a relationship with a certain someone and that would be
That would be greater or maybe it's your athletic prowess
And maybe your strength and you would say only if.
This is my dream
And that would be great.
You see, the truth is that Jesus teaches us, and we learn as we grow in relationship with Him, that
What true greatness is all about?
And from this past weekend's message,
We are going to take one thought, one paradigm shift,
To help us to evaluate what true greatness is all about.
And so often I think in Scripture,
We see this upside down reality. And what I mean by that is as we look at greatness compared to the earth and what we see, and as we compare to scriptures and what heaven
A heaven tells us it's opposite. It's opposite.
It's so hard. It's difficult because we look at greatness and we think we understand what it is, but as we read scripture, it's often the opposite of
And so as you look at chapter 9,
I want you to look at verse 35, and that's where we'll pick up and look at one thought.
God, I hope transforms my life and transforms your life this verse. As anyone who wants to be first, first.
It must be the very last.
And the servant of all.
Man.
If we want to be
First, we've got to be last.
It's that upside down reality, that opposite truth, this mind blowing concept. Because the truth is we all want to be first, don't we?
Whether it be from childhood to adulthood.
Life is a race and we're constantly going trying to grow trying to be better trying to get faster trying to get more efficient we want to
To be first.
But today, the Bible study reminds us that in God's kingdom,
If you want to be first,
You've got to be last. In this concept in scripture, we talk about his servanthood. Servanthood, how we ought to serve others. We see this modeled in
Oddled in the life of Jesus, God is the
The Bible tells us that he came to be a servant to all.
He came with that mindset, that model in his DNA of what it means to serve. And if we want to be like Jesus, if we want to understand who he is,
then we've got to begin to understand this idea of servanthood in Scripture.
The word a servant in the original language is this word diakonos and it's the word deacon and I'm sure you know in church world we talk about deacons, we talk about elders.
And this idea of deacon means to be willing to
To do the lowliest of jobs.
Willing to sweep the floor.
Willing to clean the bathrooms
Willing to do what you're asked to do
Why is this concept so important in Scripture? It's because...
God has a plan for all of our lives.
You see, he's crafted us and built us together.
In his image
For his glory.
For a purpose.
And as we grow in relationship with our Lord, we also grow in this ability to follow His voice.
Are we willing to do the thing that he's called us to do?
Maybe you've driven by
The same homeless person.
The same time every day
This past year.
It's God calling you to reach out and do something for that person.
Maybe you driven by a a stranded person on the side of the road who needs help changing a tire or maybe they're
Car battery jumped.
Are you...
Having the servant mind
willing to say, "God, are you calling me to stop? Are you calling me to do something? Are you calling me to...?"
Move in the way or in a certain way
God wants us to be willing.
He wants us to be available and he wants us to have a humble heart.
So that we can follow his heart
In service for him.
The person who wishes to be the greatest.
Must find himself to be the least or to find himself to be the last.
The truth is, is that
I've heard this statement over and over again in my life, in my course of ministry.
And here's the statement.
An easy way to tell if you have a servant's heart
It's how you act when you're treated like one. What do I mean by that?
When you're treated like a servant
When you're put in a position to do the lowly job, are you willing to take it?
I remember a really good friend of mine, he tells this story.
And he tells it with a sort of joy.
But he doesn't realize when he tells that story, it reminds me of the opposite of joy.
Here's the story. The story is that we were doing an event together.
For a bunch of families.
And we borrowed tablecloths from a group of people.
And these tablecloths were apparently expensive and treasured.
And somehow they ended up in the garbage dump.
And so we figured out that somehow they got they got put in garbage bags and they were mistaken for the garbage.
And now they're there and my friend, he had to go somewhere.
And so he said,
Hey Ruben, would you be willing to go on the garbage dump and get these bags out? And literally, let me put you in the moment for a second.
The garbage dump is like that big tin, you know thing. Food's been sitting in it for weeks. That's why not weeks, maybe days. Smelled like weeks, but a couple days.
Now it's rotting.
And I've got brand new shoes on.
You know, I dressed up for the party.
And now he wants me to jump in and go get these tablecloths. What did I say? I said, "Sure, man. No problem, bro. Go do what you gotta do. I'll take care of it." Inside, I'm saying, "Ahhhh, I don
Serve servanthood is being willing to say yes.
But also there's a heart characteristic that goes along with it.
1 Peter 4, verse 23 says, Above all else, guard your heart.
For everything you do flows from it
So what about you?
Maybe you're like me. You've been in times where you can say yes, but you don't want to say yes.
And so in your groups today, what I'm hoping is that you take some time to evaluate.
How's your heart?
And regards
To service.
And being a servant.
When your spouse asks you to take the garbage out or do the dishes
What does your heart sing?
What is your mouth saying?
Are we reflecting Jesus?
It's important for us
To not find ourselves caught up in the race of life.
Wanting to get ahead
Although there's nothing wrong with being efficient and being good at what you do.
But when our life is consumed
By being the greatest, we can find ourselves
The opposite of Jesus, being filled with pride.
He wants us to be meek.
He wants us to be humble.
He wants us to be like himself.
Being willing to let somebody else go in front.
Being willing to stop and help somebody who may be
Is not having a good day.
So that we can rightly represent the gospel to a lost people.
and dying world. So in your groups, I'm hoping that you can analyze your heart.
You can analyze your answer, what you say with your mouth.
And find yourself
moving towards what it looks like to be a servant. God bless you. Thank you for listening.